---
title: "A11y Thoughts"
description: "Some tools I've found for and thoughts I have about Web Accessibility"
ogImage: "../../assets/imgs/axeLogo.png"
date: 2024-01-17T03:21:44Z
---

# Making accessibility accessible

I've recently taken a keen interest in accessibility, and here I'll keep some notes for myself and others.

## First impressions

I've noticed that WCAG is very dense, and I can somewhat forgive this as it is an international standard. Despite assuming it would need to be exhaustive and somewhat beaucratic, I'm still surprised.

## Tools 

As a developer, I'm very aware of the power of tooling. 

My real introduction in accessibility was [Lighthouse](https://pagespeed.web.dev). This took me a long way, and remains integral to my process. 

I spent some time looking for other options, and found [deque-labs/axe-core](https://github.com/dequelabs/axe-core) powers Lighthouse's accessibility tests. 

What I really wanted was a full audit, instead of one that left me with "manually check x, y and z"

[Wave webaim](https://wave.webaim.org/) is pretty cool as well, but they add rules outside of WCAG which is fine but it can make it confusing if you're just looking to adhere to WCAG

I'm still on the hunt as of now...

## Solutions

I've noticed that one a relatively common solution is tools similar to accessibe's plugin. This plugin uses "ai" and will basically override the design of the website to meet user's requirements. 

I don't love this option, because I feel it makes the fancy design for people who don't need assistance. What I'd want is for well designed creative websites to be made accessible by default. 

I do like that it gives option for sites that cannot afford to redesign with WCAG in mind. 

I guess the best solution would be to pay for a manual audit, or as a developer to learn what it takes to become an auditor for your own sites